How would you feel if you received an invitation to attend the next class of Gilead school?
For many, it has been a lifelong dream to attend Gilead.
The course helps students keep a tight grip on the word of life.
For others, the idea of five months of intense study seems intimidating.
We know we need to study,
but we may find it a challenge to get the most out of the time we spend reading God's Word.
In this program, we will discuss why study is so important.
What it means to study something and how you can get more familiar study sessions.
Since most cannot attend Gilead, we will demonstrate the method used in Gilead school.
First, why is study so important?
Only by study can we keep a tight grip on the word of life.
When the Apostle Paul penned these words, he was imprisoned in nearing the end of his action-packed life.
He had been the Apostle to the nations and had spent his best years taking the Word of God to the unknown world.
As he reflected on the fruits of his labors, he wrote a letter to his friends in the congregation in Philippi in Macedonia.
Inspired by Holy Spirit, he wrote words that would aid his brothers to gain the prize of eternal life.
These words are found at Philippians 2, verse 15 and 16. Let's read them.
A so that you may come to be blameless and innocent, children of God, without a blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation,
among whom you are shining as illuminators in the world,
keeping a tight grip on the Word of Life.
Imagine the joy Paul felt when he was reunited in the heavenly resurrection with those who listened
to his admonition to keep a tight grip on the Word of Life. Whether we have the heavenly or earthly hope,
Paul's words can help us gain the prize of eternal life. They imprint in our hearts and minds at
basic exhortation that will lead us through these last days and into our everlasting reward.
The question is, will we remain blameless and without blemish in the midst of this crooked and twisted
generation of our day? Will we rejoice with other faithful servants of God in the new world?
We can and we will if we take to Hart Paul's counsel to keep a tight grip on the Word of Life.
Next, what does it mean to study? Stop and contemplate this word picture for keeping a tight grip.
Imagine a hiker who was slipped near a ledge, but before falling over the cliff,
he grabs hold of a tree branch. How tight do you think his grip will be on that branch?
This is not a half-hearted effort. Likewise, keeping a tight grip on the Word of Life is not just
a mechanical routine nor is it a casual habit. It requires strenuous effort. It involves
actively living by the truths in God's Word. To do this, we must understand more than what God
expressly commands and condemns. We must be able to identify principles or life lessons contained
in the Bible. Once identified, we must understand how to match these valuable truths to specific
situations in our lives. Then we must allow these principles to influence our decisions and guide
our reaction to trials and temptations. Ask yourself, how strong is my grip on the Word of Life?
To answer that, let's consider the fundamentals of Bible study. This is not about old methods or
new methods, nor is it about what device you are using. This discussion transcends devices.
Study requires active thinking. In a world of increasing distractions, this is becoming an even
greater challenge. We often receive instant information that enables us to quickly recite facts,
but this is not the same as active thinking. Through active thinking, we draw meaningful conclusions
in our hearts. We are certainly grateful for all the study tools we've been given,
we should use these to the full. At the same time, we need to be careful that these tools
do not cause us to develop mental laziness. Devices can help us to access information,
but they can't think for us. We must work hard if we are to develop new patterns of thinking.
For example, if we study the Watchtower on a device, we can use the hyperlink feature to read
the scriptures. With a simple touch, we quickly find and read the verse. That is good.
If you regularly do this, you get a grip on the Word of Life. But would you like to get a tight
grip on the Word of Life? To get a tight grip requires more effort than a swipe of a finger
and then swiftly moving on. You need to slow down and analyze the material. Only then will the
information you study become imprinted on your mind and heart, leaving a clear and distinct
impression. How then can I get more out of my study? Let's demonstrate a method taught during
Gilead School. It involves the use of six questions. Following poem written by English journalist
Rudyard Kipling can help guide better thinking. I keep six honest serving men. They taught me all I
knew. Their names are what and why and when and how and where and who. When studying God's Word,
ask yourself these questions and then do research in our publications to get the facts and
discern the spiritual lessons. To illustrate how to do this, let's open our Bibles to Genesis chapter 49
and look at verses 22 through 25. First we ask the when and where. Now with some research,
we learn that Jacob spoke these words near the end of his life. He was in Egypt.
But what he described takes us back to Cain in some 40 years when his son Joseph was a young man.
Now we have a clear picture of these verses. So now let's read and analyze verse 22.
Joseph is the offshoot of a fruitful tree, a fruitful tree by a spring whose branches extend over
the wall. The offshoot of a fruitful tree. Who is the fruitful tree? It is Joseph's father Jacob.
How was he fruitful? He bore many children. Joseph's branches extend over the wall. As Jacob's offshoot,
Joseph is singled out for a special blessing superior to that of his brothers. Why? Joseph proved
he had the qualities needed for leadership. However, of even greater value than his abilities was his
being a spiritual man. Let's read verse 23. But the archers kept harassing him and shot at him and
kept harboring animosity against him. The archers kept harassing him. Who are the archers? Joseph's
half-brothers. How? They shot figuratively at Joseph, arrows of envy and hatred and jealousy
were used to attack him. Now eventually his brothers sold him into slavery. Now let's read verse 24.
And yet his bow remained in place and his hands stayed strong and agile. This was from the hands of
the powerful one of Jacob, from the shepherd, the stone of Israel. His bow remained in place. How?
Despite the repeated attacks, Joseph repaid animosity with kindness. Joseph endured this ill
treatment and did not weaken in his devotion to God. Now we ask how? How is it that Joseph kept a
spiritual outlook despite the harassment and animosity? Let's read verse 25.
He, Joseph, is from the God of your Father, and he will help you, and he is with the Almighty,
and he will bless you with the blessings of the heavens above, with the blessings of the deep below,
with the blessings of the breasts, and wound. He is with the Almighty. Joseph had Jehovah's
help. The Almighty was by his side through it all. We've used our questions to get the facts
of the account, but we're not done. Now let's use them to take our study to a spiritual plane.
Next, let's ask a what question? What does this account teach us about Jehovah? Jehovah never
abandons his loyal servants. Even in the depths of prison, Joseph was not alone.
Jehovah found ways to bless Joseph. Now make the connection to Jehovah's people today,
including yourself. Jehovah will never abandon us. Rather, he shows loyal love to all those who
serve him whole soul. Would Jehovah let Joseph remain in prison indefinitely? No. At the
appointed time, relief came. Joseph was raised from a prisoner in chains to the second most
powerful man in Egypt, from prison to palace in one day. Make the connection to us. Our trials are
temporary. Jehovah will soon bring relief, even in unexpected or surprising ways. Meanwhile,
we are never alone. Jehovah is with us. Again, let's ask the question, how? How does the account
contribute to the Bible's theme? Joseph suffered, but his suffering led to the survival of Abraham's
offspring leading to the Messiah. Joseph's account is not just a riveting story. It directly
contributed to the development of Jehovah's purpose. Think about this. In spite of the poor
conduct of his brothers, Joseph forgave them and took the initiative to improve their relationship
with him. Joseph's attitude was a reflection of Jehovah's attitude with their family reunited.
Jehovah also forgave Joseph's brothers and took the initiative and restoring their relationship
with himself. In fact, Jehovah gave Joseph's brother Judah the honor of being an ancestor of the Messiah.
What are the lessons in this account? Let's highlight just one. Genesis chapter 49 and verse 23.
But the archers kept harassing him and shot at him and kept harboring animosity against him.
Arrows of animosity were fired at Joseph. Recall Joseph's response in verse 24 and yet his
bowl remained in place and his hands stayed strong and agile. In other words, he did not return
fire. His bowl remained in place, reflect on the last time you were wronged by someone.
How could someone react to what you experienced? Would we seek to vindicate ourselves or insist on
our rights? Would we fire arrows of animosity in return? Or could we show mercy and loyal love?
Would our reaction reveal that God's spirit was operative on us? Like Joseph, we know we will have
Jehovah's approval even if we are wronged or experienced trials that make us feel like we are in prison.
Reflective questions like these enable us to make the account our own. It becomes part of us,
part of our way of thinking, our way of acting. This nourishes our relationship with Jehovah.
This type of study rewards us, not simply with a collection of facts that impress us today and
are forgotten tomorrow. Rather, it leaves us with core principles that we remember that influence
our decisions and that guide our lives. We tighten our grip on the word of life.
Let's review the fundamentals of study. Again, this is not about old methods or new methods or
about what device you are using. This discussion transcends devices. It's about basic methods of
Bible study. We can liken these three phases of study to gathering, sifting, and baking grain.
Gathering is when we read the Bible. We don't run through the field, grabbing just handfuls of grain.
We systematically harvest the field. Sifting is when we sort out what we gather,
answering who, what, where, when, why, and how to get the facts. Baking is when we think,
turning up the heat in your mind and heart. Something no one else can do for you.
The questions we ask can take our study to a spiritual plane. Most importantly,
what does this teach me about Jehovah? How does it contribute to the Bible's theme and the bottom
line? What is the lesson for me? Jehovah gave us a mind that is begging to learn. It is a gift
with the capacity to cultivate thinking ability. When we make the effort to unearth gems from God's
Word, we find that study is rewarding and delightful. More importantly, our study skills enable us to
keep a tight grip on the word of life. A tight grip on God's Word will make our life better now,
and give us the opportunity to continue learning about our Heavenly Father for all eternity.